## REST Method Status Codes
[Section Source](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)

In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:
- 100’s = informational status codes
- 200’s = sucess codes
- 300’s = redirection codes
- 400’s = client error codes
- 500’s = server error codes

- What is a status code 202?
  - Accepted, used in asynchronous processing
- What is a status code 308?
  - Permanent Redirect, use another url
- What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?
  - code 204
- What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?
  - code 410 Gone
- What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?
  - code 403 has no permissions to access resource

## Building a REST API
[Section Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fgTGADljAeg)

- Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?
  - because it contains senstaive information
- What is middleware?
  - code that runs when the server get a request but before it gets passed to routes
- What does app.use(express.json()) do?
  - lets server accept JSON as a body vs a post or get element
- What does the /:id mean in a route?
  - `:` in front of id means it is a parameter and you can access it in a function by typing `req.params.id`
- What is the difference beween PUT and PATCH?
  - patch only updates the information passed
  - put updates all of the information
- How do you make a defalut value in a schema?
  - `default: default_value`
- What does a 500 error status code mean?
  - error on your server
- What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?
  - 200 is success, but 201 specifically means you successfully created an object

## Things I want to know more about:
- practice with backends