## Component Lifecycle/useEffect()

### Review, Research, and Discussion
Why do we not need more .html pages in a multi-page React app?
- React is a single page application which requires a root in an HTML page, so to have a multiple webpages you need multiple HTML pages so Multiple roots can be set up.

If we wanted a component to show up on every page, where would we put it and why?
Outside the `<BrowserRouter/>`
Inside the `<BrowserRouter />`, outside a `<Route />`
Inside a `<Route />`
- Inside the Inside the `<BrowserRouter />`, outside a `<Route />` 

What does routing do with the components that were rendered when a new route is requested
- If the component isn't required to render at the new route, the render function isn't called.

What does props.children contain?
- props.children contains any state attributes or function attributes pass down from a parent component to a child component

How do useState() and this.setState() differ?
- useSate() is a hook from the ReactAPI and can only be used with functional components, this.setState() is used with class based components.

### Vocab
**State Hook**
- A Hook is a special function that lets you “hook into” React features. For example, useState is a Hook that lets you add React state to function components. We’ll learn other Hooks later. [source](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html)

**Mounting and Un-Mounting**
- Mounting is a react lifecycle event that occurs when the component is being rendered
- Un-Mounting is a react lifecycle event that occurs when the component is removed and nolonger being rendered

### Resources
- [effects hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html)
